I bring these up ArrayList here and
now linkless after this because,
first of all I'm using Java
terminology and I apologize for that.
But I don't also know of any
better terminology for this and
I think it's important for
you to know these two data structures.
We're talking two different ways that
you could implement an array, right?
Like if I was gonna go write my own
standard library with my own array types.
These are kind of the two
chief ways of doing it,
this is really awkward for us to try.
And model this in JavaScript because
Java JavaScript doesn't really
give you a choice, we have one array data
type, and it's just called array, right?
But if you're in a language like Java or
other languages like that,
they actually give you a choice of what
type of array that you're going to use.
And you choose one depending on what
kind of operations you're going to be
doing with your array.
Again, JavaScript being the high
level language that it is,
doesn't give you a choice.
So an ArrayList again,
imagining in your head that
you're implementing an array for
yourself, right?
An ArrayList is kind of how you would
think of it, right like that's how most
of us would conceptualize how
to put something in memory.
So, again, pretend for a second
that JavaScript has no array tied,
so for right now you can't
say x equals square brackets.
I want you to think about how would you
implement an array yourself using just
objects.
So for an ArrayList basically, I think
imagine most of you would say like, okay.
Well if I'm going to
be doing with objects,
I can just say that let's
just put it in here.
You might have an object that
looks like my array equals object,
I could just say array 0 or .0 = 1.
I guess it doesn't like dot, so
you do array 0 = 1, array 1= 2, right?
So I mean obviously at the end of the day
this looks actually fairly similar to what
would be implementing it as, right.
But imagine this would be like
sequentially allocated in memory, right.
So basically all of the various different
items in your array would be co located in
memory.
So that if you were asking for
like hey I want index 4,
basically we would hop into memory.
We'd look for index 0 and
then we will go four places over and
we would arrive at our item in the array,
right?
So everything is just located right next
to each other in memory, that makes sense?
The advantage of this is it makes lookups
super easy, right if I know the index and
I know the object,
I know exactly where it is in memory.
Cuz you can think of memory is
just like one super long array,
right with various different
addresses that we could look at.
Yeah, so that makes lookups super
easy because we can just say, okay,
go to this place in memory and
go seven places over.
And then you have array index 6,
while it's super advantageous for
lookups it's kinda disadvantageous for
like deletions.
Possibly for additions, certainly for
shifting things around, right?
Because if I wanna delete,
let's say I have an array of size 10,
so let's even go like this.
So now I have 2=3, right and
I have an array that has 0,1, 2 and
3, if I delete index 0 what happens?
I now have to go and shift everything up,
right now I have to say
array 1 is assigned array 0,
other way around array 0 is assigned 1.
And I have to say array
1 is assigned array 2.
And now if I say array again, and
then I have to finally say delete array 2.
So now if I look at my array now,
that's what I had to do to actually
delete something out of the array.
That's kind of burdensome, right
[LAUGH] Now imagine if my array is of
size 10,000 and I want to delete arrays 0.
I don't have to go shift 9999 things
in memory, that doesn't sound like fun,
that actually sounds pretty
computationally inefficient.
So that's where ArrayList
kind of falls apart
because it makes these deletions, right.
Or if I wanna insert something
straight in the middle,
that becomes really burdensome.
So that's why ArrayList for
arrays is really good for
things you have to do a lot of lookups on,
a lot of addition.
And then adding things to the end
typically isn't too bad as long as you
have sufficient space in memory.
All that kind of stuff is great, but
as soon as you wanna do a lot of deletions
and additions in the middle
ArrayList is not a good thing.
Yeah, keep in mind you do have to do
a lookup in a deletion in order to do
a deletion.
This is true regardless,
we kind of ignore that part of it but
let's talk about the big O's of this.
So, a big O of an ArrayList
lookup in terms of
like if I asked you for
array one like this.
This would be constant time, right because
I'll have to do is find the object,
hop over one space, there it is.
That's considered constant time for a
lookup, however if I wanna do a deletion,
what is that?
That actually ends up being N, right?
Because I have to shift everything over in
memory every single time that I do that.